///Data Collection Form

I created a data collection form under the contact tab for people to fill up so that they can get in touch with me via email. The form has 6 fields – first name, last name, email address, subject, an optional phone number, and an optional message text area – with the subject field being a dropdown list input and the rest being text input fields. I used JavaScript to provide data validation for each of the required fields (everything except the phone and message text area). HTML already provides validation for empty required fields with the required attribute, so I only needed to check for incorrect inputs. 

I used Regex to set up a pattern that the user input should follow. For the first and last name, I made sure that only letters from the Latin alphabet and hyphens (in case someone has a name such as Leigh-ann) were allowed to be input. I understand that there are also names from other languages that don’t use the Latin alphabet but I wasn’t too sure how to account for all the possibilities. For the optional phone number field, I only allowed phone numbers inputs (if the users input a value) which are just: 1. Chunks of digits 2. Digits separated by dashes (999-999-9999). For the email input, I made sure that an @ sign and a . (dot) were present and that: 1. The @ sign exists and can’t be the first character 2. The dot exists and isn’t the first/last character 3. There has to be at least one character in between the @ sign and dot. The optional text message area has no validation needed since it’s optional. Each change is only reflected by alert messages because I'm not implementing the backend, but on clicking the submit, a boolean value is stored to determine whether the form was correctly filled or not, so implenting the frontend could utilize that value to determine whether the message is sent or not. 


///External Content Integration

YouTube Video – I integrated a YouTube video of part of my presentation for the project description to provide the user with visual evidence and explanation of the project at hand. In the video, I lay out a more in-depth look at the concept, while the text on the html page only summarizes. I didn’t want to type out a huge block of text explaining every aspect of the project, so I wanted the text to provide a general gist and depending on whether the users are interested, they can watch the YouTube video. I set the YouTube video so that it immediately plays muted when the user enters the page, so that they are given a cue that the video contains information regarding the project. I decided to leave the video’s controls on so the user can modify their own viewing experience by either muting, playing back the video, etc.

Google Calendar – I thought it was important for my Google Calendar to be on the website, so in the event that a potential employer or someone else entirely wants to meet me, they will be able to propose a meeting time. Another purpose of the Calendar is for people to get a glimpse into what I am or was doing, in terms of classes and activities without me having to explicitly list them out. 
